# sql_project
Sql Project About Rental – Film

Description:
This SQL project involves assisting a film rental store owner in managing the business using a software system. The database includes tables like Actor, Film, Customer Info, and Store, interrelated for data analysis. The objective is to generate SQL queries to provide the owner with essential reports for making informed business decisions, especially when the usual helper is unavailable.

Key skills:
SQL, create database, tables, Manipulate the tables, Problem solving

Questions:
1.	What is the total revenue generated from all rentals in the database? (2 Marks)
2.	How many rentals were made in each month_name? (2 Marks)
3.	What is the rental rate of the film with the longest title in the database? (2 Marks)
4.	What is the average rental rate for films that were taken from the last 30 days from the date("2005-05-05 22:04:30")? (2 Marks)
5.	What is the most popular category of films in terms of the number of rentals? (3 Marks)
6.	Find the longest movie duration from the list of films that have not been rented by any customer. (3 Marks)
7.	What is the average rental rate for films, broken down by category? (3 Marks)
8.	What is the total revenue generated from rentals for each actor in the database? (3 Marks)
9.	Show all the actresses who worked in a film having a "Wrestler" in the description. (3 Marks)
10.	Which customers have rented the same film more than once? (3 Marks)
11.	How many films in the comedy category have a rental rate higher than the average rental rate? (3 Marks)
12.	Which films have been rented the most by customers living in each city? (3 Marks)
13.	What is the total amount spent by customers whose rental payments exceed $200? (3 Marks)
14.	Display the fields which are having foreign key constraints related to the "rental" table. [Hint: using Information_schema] (2 Marks)
15.	Create a View for the total revenue generated by each staff member, broken down by store city with the country name. (4 Marks)
16.	Create a view based on rental information consisting of visiting_day, customer_name, the title of the film,  no_of_rental_days, the amount paid by the customer along with the percentage of customer spending. (4 Marks)
17.	Display the customers who paid 50% of their total rental costs within one day. (5 Marks)



